# Rufus CSS

Self-defined, utility-first, Tailwind-inspired CSS library.

### [Link to documentation](https://tompston.github.io/rufus-css/)

## Why?

I like the concept of tailwind, but don't like using rem units. + I wanted something that you can tweak easier.

## Download

```bash
# with cmd
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tompston/rufus-css/main/rufus.css -O rufus.css

# with bash
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tompston/rufus-css/main/rufus.css
```

## Goals

1. Root variables are meant to be tweaked for personal / project needs
1. The name of the root variable is the same as the class name

   - --font-fam-1 variable is font-fam-1 class

1. Collection of 2 types of classes

   - predefined classes for css properties that change based on the project ( like `font-family, font-size, bacground-color, color, shadow` )
   - classes generated by python that are used for sizing ( like `padding, marging, height, width, gap` )

1. predictable names ( increments ) for classes that deal with sizing
   - pl-2 means `padding-left:2px;`
   - m-345 means `margin: 345px;`
1. Setup is easy, as everything is contained in a single css file
   - Minimal setup applies only if you don't need new css properties / values / ranges / increments for the classes generated by python
1. Encourages a more maintainable design system, as the root variables can hold the values that will be used in the project

   - Instead of defining a new color when creating a class for an element, just use the `main-col-1` root variable. As the value of it is mapped to the class, you can define it inside the html, or call it from the css file
     Same applies to transitions, font-sizes, font-family shadows , etc etc.

1. Remove some of the predefined html css properties for browsers.

1. The goal is not to stop writing css. The goal is to write css when you need
   - to specify things that are used relativley rarely
   - media queries
   - classes that apply to a group of elements

## Command to generate and combine css

    # from the root dir, using bash
    npm i
    npm run build

If this is added, every time you run `npm run build`, the postbuild script will
also be triggered and purge the css in the dist folder.

- note that you need to install purgecss as a dependency, if you're gonna do
  automatic builds for Netlify and stuff
- The `package.json` example is also written inside the output file, so u don't need to check the repo again.
